The University of Rochester (U of R or UR) is a private research university in Rochester, New York. The university grants undergraduate and graduate degrees, including doctoral and professional degrees. In its history, 6 university alumni, 2 faculty, and 1 senior research associate at Strong Memorial Hospital have been awarded a Nobel Prize; 32 faculty serve in the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; 12 alumni and faculty members have won a Pulitzer Prize, and 20 faculty members have been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship.The University of Rochester enrolls approximately 5,600 undergraduates and 4,600 graduate students. Its 158 buildings house over 200 academic majors. Additionally, the university is the largest employer in the Greater Rochester area and the 6th largest employer in New York. According to the National Science Foundation ranking of total research and development expenditures, the University of Rochester spent $346 million on R&D in 2016, the 66th highest figure, nationally.The University of Rochester is particularly noted for its Eastman School of Music, which ranks first among music schools in the U.S.,  due to the creative and scholarly contributions of its faculty and students. The Sibley Music Library at Eastman is the largest academic music library in North America and holds the third largest collection in the United States. The Simon Business School is ranked in the top 5 in economics and  finance by the Financial Times. Simon faculty founded and support three of the highest-ranked journals in economics and finance: the Journal of Accounting and Economics, the Journal of Financial Economics, and the Journal of Monetary Economics. The School of Medicine and Dentistry is highly regarded nationally and has produced vaccines, drugs, and public health professionals who have saved countless lives. Importantly, the biopsychosocial model of medicine was developed at Rochester, in which physicians aim to treat the whole patient. The Edward G. Miner library holds numerous significant items, including the Arthur Kornberg Nobel Prize and texts by Andreas Vesalius.The College of Arts, Sciences, and Engineering is home to departments and divisions of note. The Institute of Optics was founded in 1929 through a grant from Eastman Kodak and Bausch and Lomb as the first educational program in the US devoted exclusively to optics, awards approximately half of all optics degrees nationwide, and is widely regarded as the premier optics program in the nation. The Departments of Political Science and Economics have made a significant and consistent impact on positivist social science since the 1960s,  and historically rank in the top 5 in their fields. The Department of Chemistry is noted for its contributions to synthetic organic chemistry, including the first lab based synthesis of morphine. The Rossell Hope Robbins Library serves as the university's resource for Old and Middle English texts and expertise. The university is also home to Rochester's Laboratory for Laser Energetics, a US Department of Energy supported national laboratory.