Case Western Reserve University (also known as Case Western Reserve, Case Western, Case, and CWRU) is a private doctorate-granting university in Cleveland, Ohio.  It was created in 1967 through the federation of two longstanding contiguous institutions: Western Reserve University, founded in 1826 and named for its location in the Connecticut Western Reserve; and Case Institute of Technology, founded in 1880 through the endowment of Leonard Case, Jr.. Time magazine described the merger as the creation of "Cleveland's Big-Leaguer" university.Seventeen Nobel laureates have been affiliated with Case Western Reserve or one of its two predecessors. In U.S. News & World Report's 2018 rankings, Case Western Reserve was ranked 37th among national universities and 146th among global universities. In 2016, the inaugural edition of The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education (WSJ/THE) ranked Case Western Reserve as 32nd among all universities and 29th among private institutions.The campus is approximately 5 miles (8 km) east of Downtown Cleveland in the neighborhood known as University Circle, an area encompassing 550 acres (220 ha) containing what has been called the greatest concentration of educational, medical, and cultural institutions within one square mile of the United States. Case Western Reserve has a number of programs taught in conjunction with University Circle institutions, including the Cleveland Clinic, the University Hospitals of Cleveland, the Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veteran's Affairs Medical Center, Cleveland Institute of Music, the Cleveland Hearing & Speech Center, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Cleveland Institute of Art, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, and the Cleveland Play House. Severance Hall, home of the Cleveland Orchestra, resides on Case Western Reserve campus.
Case Western Reserve is particularly well known for its medical school, business school, dental school, law school, Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing (named for former U.S. Representative Frances P. Bolton), Department of Biomedical Engineering and its biomedical teaching and research capabilities. Case Western Reserve is a member of the Association of American Universities.Case is a leading institution for research in electrochemistry and electrochemical engineering. The Editor for the Journal of the Electrochemical Society is a Case professor, and the university is home to six Fellows of the Electrochemical Society. The Yeager Center for Electrochemical Sciences (YCES), formerly the Case Center for Electrochemical Sciences, has provided annual workshops on electrochemical measurements since the late 1970's. Related laboratories at Case include the Electrochemical Engineering and Energy Laboratory (EEEL), the Electrochemical Materials Fabrication Laboratory (EMFL), the Case Electrochemical Capacitor Fabrication Facility and the ENERGY LAB. Some notable achievements involve the work on boron-doped diamond electrodes, in-situ electrochemical spectroscopy, polybenzibidazole (PBI) membranes for fuel cells and flow batteries and electrochemical sensors. In July 2018, the University was awarded $10.75 million by the U.S. Department of Energy to establish the Energy Frontier Research Center, which will explore ``Breakthrough Electrolytes for Energy Storage." The famous Michelson–Morley interferometer experiment was conducted in 1887 in the basement of a campus dormitory by Albert A. Michelson of Case School of Applied Science and Edward W. Morley of Western Reserve University. This experiment proved the non-existence of the luminiferous ether and was later understood as convincing evidence in support of special relativity as proposed by Albert Einstein in 1905. Michelson became the first American to win a Nobel Prize in science. The commemorative Michelson-Morley Memorial Fountain as well as an Ohio Historical Marker are located on campus, near where the actual experiment was performed.