Georgetown University is a private research university in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States. Founded in 1789 as Georgetown College, the university has since grown to comprise nine undergraduate and graduate schools, among which are the School of Foreign Service, School of Business, Medical School, and Law School. Georgetown's main campus is located on a hill above the Potomac River. Georgetown offers degree programs in forty-eight disciplines, enrolling an average of 7,500 undergraduate and 10,000 post-graduate students from more than 130 countries. The campus is identifiable by its flagship Healy Hall, which is a National Historic Landmark.
Georgetown is the oldest Catholic and Jesuit-affiliated institution of higher education in the United States. The Jesuits have participated in the university's academic life, both as scholars and as administrators, since 1805; however, the university has always been governed independently of the church. The majority of Georgetown students are not Catholic.Georgetown's notable alumni include U.S. President Bill Clinton, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, CIA Director George Tenet, and King Felipe of Spain, as well as the royalty  and heads of state of more than a dozen countries. In 2015, Georgetown had 1190 alumni working as diplomats for the U.S. Foreign Service, more than any other university. In 2014, Georgetown ranked second in the nation by the average number of graduates serving in the U.S. Congress. Georgetown is also a top feeder school for careers in finance and investment banking on Wall Street.Georgetown is home to the country's largest student-run business, as well as the largest student-run financial institution. The school’s athletic teams are nicknamed the Hoyas and include a men's basketball team that has won a record-tying seven Big East championships, appeared in five Final Fours, and won a national championship in 1984. The university also has a co-ed sailing team that holds thirteen national championships and one world championship title.