Indiana University Bloomington (IU Bloomington, IU, or simply Indiana) is a public research university in Bloomington, Indiana. With over 40,000 students, IU Bloomington is the flagship institution of the Indiana University system and its largest university.Indiana University is one of America's "Public Ivy" universities, which refers to the top public universities in the United States that are considered to provide a quality of education comparable with the Ivy League. It is a member of the Association of American Universities and has numerous schools and programs, including the Jacobs School of Music, the School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, the Kelley School of Business, the School of Public Health, the School of Nursing, the School of Optometry, the School of Public and Environmental Affairs, the Maurer School of Law, the School of Education, the Media School, and the School of Global and International Studies.As of Fall 2017, 43,710 students attend Indiana University. While 55.1% of the student body was from Indiana, students from all 50 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and 165 foreign nations were also enrolled. As of 2018, the average ACT score is a 27 and a SAT score of 1240. The university is home to an extensive student life program, with more than 750 student organizations on campus and with around 17 percent of undergraduates joining the Greek system. Indiana athletic teams compete in Division I of the NCAA and are known as the Indiana Hoosiers. The university is a member of the Big Ten Conference.
Among IU Bloomington’s many graduate-level programs are the Kelley School of Business, School of Education, School of Public and Environmental Affairs and Maurer School of Law. Indiana’s law school has a program with a first-year team-based approach, a diversion from the typical legal education. Notable Indiana alumni include Nobel laureate James Watson, one of the co-discoverers of the structure of DNA; Jimmy Wales, the co-founder of Wikipedia; Robert Gates, the 22nd United States Secretary of Defense; CEO and co-founder of Siri and Viv Dag Kittlaus; award-winning author Suzanne Collins, who wrote The Hunger Games series; composer and songwriter Hoagy Carmichael; John Chambers, executive chairman and former CEO of Cisco Systems; and Mark Cuban, billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks, Landmark Theatres, and Magnolia Pictures.
In terms of academics and other criteria, IU Bloomington consistently ranks in the top 100 national universities in the United States and the top 50 public universities in the country. The school's sports teams are competitors in the NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference, and, since Indiana University does not have a mascot, all teams are known simply as "Hoosiers". There are more than 750 student organizations on campus including Indiana University Dance Marathon, the nation's second largest entirely student-run organization; and more than 5,000 students go Greek in the school’s large community of fraternities and sororities.