Northeastern University (NU, formerly NEU) is a private research university in Boston, Massachusetts, established in 1898. It is categorized as an R1 institution (Doctoral Universities: Highest Research Activity) by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. 
The university offers undergraduate and graduate programs on its main campus in the Fenway-Kenmore, Roxbury, South End, and Back Bay neighborhoods of Boston. The university has satellite campuses in Charlotte, North Carolina; Seattle, Washington; and San Jose, California that exclusively offer graduate degrees. An additional satellite campus opened in Toronto, Ontario, Canada in late 2016. The university's enrollment is approximately 18,000 undergraduate students and 7,000 graduate students.
Northeastern features a cooperative education program, more commonly known as "co-op", that integrates classroom study with professional experience and contains over 3,100 partners across all seven continents. The program has been a key part of Northeastern's curriculum of experiential learning for more than a hundred years and is one of the largest co-op/internship programs in the world. While it is not required for students to participate in the co-op program, generally the program is a vital experience for Northeastern students and has helped distinguish the university from other universities in the academic world. Also, Northeastern is currently ranked 1st on the "Best Schools for Internships" list by the Princeton Review and has consistently ranked in the top five for over a decade. In addition to the co-op program Northeastern has a comprehensive study abroad program that spans more than 170 universities and colleges.Northeastern is a large, highly residential university. Most students choose to live on campus but upperclassmen have the option to live off campus. More than 75% of Northeastern students receive some form of financial aid. In the 2016–17 school year, the university offered $253.8 million in grant and scholarship assistance.
The university's sports teams, the Northeastern Huskies, compete in NCAA Division I as members of the Colonial Athletic Association (CAA) in 18 varsity sports. The men's and women's hockey teams compete in Hockey East, while the men's and women's rowing teams compete in the Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges (EARC) and Eastern Association of Women's Rowing Colleges (EAWRC), respectively. Men's Track and Field has won the CAA back to back years in 2015 and 2016. In 2013, men's basketball won its first CAA regular season championship, men's soccer won the CAA title for the first time, and women's ice hockey won a record 16th Beanpot championship. The Northeastern men's hockey team won the 2018 Beanpot beating out Boston University, Boston College, and Harvard.