The George Washington University (GW, GWU, or George Washington) is a private research university in Washington, D.C. Charted by an act of the United States Congress in 1821, GW was founded on the basis of the wishes of George Washington, 1st President of the United States, for a national university within the nation's capital. The original name of the institution was the Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
The university is organized into 14 colleges and schools, including the Columbian College of Arts and Sciences, the Elliott School of International Affairs, the School of Media and Public Affairs, the Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration, the GW Law School, and the Corcoran School of the Arts and Design. George Washington's main Foggy Bottom Campus is located in the heart of Washington, D.C., with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank located on campus and the White House and the U.S. Department of State within blocks of campus. GWU hosts numerous research centers and institutes, including the National Security Archive and the Institute for International Economic Policy. GWU has two satellite campuses: the Mount Vernon Campus, located in D.C.'s Foxhall neighborhood and the Virginia Science and Technology Campus in the Washington Metropolitan Area. It is the largest institution of higher education in the District of Columbia.
George Washington, the 1st President of the United States, advocated the establishment of a national university in the U.S. capital in his first State of the Union address in 1790 and continued to promote this idea throughout his career and until his death. In his will, Washington left shares in the Potomac Company to endow the university. However, due to the company's financial difficulties, funds were raised independently. On 9 February 1821, the university was founded by an Act of Congress, making it one of only 5 universities in the United States with a Congressional charter.George Washington alumni include numerous prominent politicians (including the current President of Togo, the current Prime-Minister of Pakistan, and the current Premier of Bermuda), U.S. Military officials (including four living former Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff), business people (including Lee Kun-hee, Chairman of Samsung Group, & Dan Glickman, CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America), and many other historical figures (including Syngman Rhee, 1st President of South Korea, Edward Teller, "father of the hydrogen bomb", Ralph A. Alpher, "father of the Big Bang Theory", and J. William Fulbright, founder of the Fulbright Scholar Program), including Nobel laureates, MacArthur fellows, Olympic athletes, Academy Award and Golden Globe winners, royalty, and Time 100 notables. Similarly, GWU has played host to numerous notable faculty, including Nobel laureates, Pulitzer Prize winners, diplomats (including three living former U.S. Assistant Secretaries of State), and numerous political figures (including former International Court of Justice judge Thomas Buergenthal, former Puerto Rico Governor Pedro Rosselló, & former Prime Minister of Bangladesh Moudud Ahmed). Former members of GWU's Board of Trustees have included U.S. Presidents John Quincy Adams and Ulysses S. Grant, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, and inventor of the telephone, Alexander Graham Bell.
George Washington offers degree programs in seventy-one disciplines, enrolling an average of 11,000 undergraduate and 15,500 post-graduate students from more than 130 countries. The university is famous for preparing leaders for careers in government, international affairs, and journalism. The Princeton Review ranked GWU 1st for Top Colleges or Universities for Internship Opportunities. As of 2015, George Washington had over 1,100 active alumni in the U.S. Foreign Service, the nation's diplomatic corps. GWU is consistently ranked by The Princeton Review in the top "Most Politically Active" Schools. George Washington is home to an extensive student life program with the country's largest College Democrats and College Republicans chapters, as well as a strong Greek culture, and over 450 other student organizations. The school's athletic teams, the George Washington Colonials, play in the Atlantic 10 Conference and include a season-winning men's soccer team, championship-winning men's and women's basketball teams with numerous post season appearances, and a nationally-ranked men's rowing team.