The University of Georgia, also referred to as UGA or simply Georgia, is an American public, flagship, comprehensive research university. Its main 762-acre (3.08 km2) campus is in Athens, Georgia. Founded in 1785, it is one of three schools to claim the title of the oldest public university in the United States.The university is classified by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education as a Research I university. It also classifies the student body as "more selective," its most selective admissions category. The university is tied for 16th overall among all public national universities in the 2018 U.S. News & World Report rankings, and a Kiplinger's and Princeton Review top ten in value. The university has been recognized as a Public Ivy, a publicly-funded university considered to provide a quality of education comparable to that of an Ivy League university.The university is organized into 17 constituent schools and colleges offering more than 140 degree programs. The university's historic North Campus is listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places as a designated historic district. The contiguous campus areas include rolling hills, gardens, and extensive green space including nature walks, fields, shrubbery, and large and varied arboreta. Close to the contiguous campus is the university's 58-acre Health Sciences Campus that also has an extensive landscaped green space, more than 400 trees, and several additional historic buildings.
Athens has consistently ranked among America's best college towns primarily due to its vibrant restaurant, bar, and music scenes. In addition to the main campus in Athens with its approximately 460 buildings, the university has two smaller campuses located in Tifton and Griffin. The university has two satellite campuses located in Atlanta and Lawrenceville. The university operates several service and outreach stations spread across the state. The total acreage of the university in 30 Georgia counties is 41,539 acres (168.10 km2). The university also owns a residential and research center in Washington, D.C., and three international residential and research centers located at Oxford University in Oxford, England, at Cortona, Italy, and at Monteverde, Costa Rica.
Varsity and intramural student athletics are an integral part of student life. The University of Georgia's intercollegiate sports teams, commonly known by their Georgia Bulldogs nickname, compete in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I and the Southeastern Conference (SEC). UGA served as a founding member of the SEC in 1932. In their more than 120-year history, the university's varsity sports teams have won 39 national championships and 130 conference championships. The Georgia Redcoat Marching Band, the official marching band of the university, performs at athletic and other events.